Some context before you review the curren screenshots in dev environment:
- These screenshots are more functional testing during development and today's focus is refactoring our UI to make it more professional look & feel similar to what you noticed in previous set of screenshots. Minimalist, simple, user-friendly design. No scroll bars, maximize the use of real state on the screen, less fritcion points.
- In the first release, we only have passpharase protected age keys stored on user loccal machine in encrypted file. So the navigation and design was simple.
- In this upcoming release, targeted for Sun (today is Fri), we have introduced:
	- Multiple vaults: A user can have a set of sensitive documents (vault) for personal, business etc.
	- We also introduced Yubikey. For recovery and resiliency, we are going to let the user to have 1 passpharase key and upto 3 yubikeys so total 4 keys. A user can create these keys independent of any vaults! just a set of keys, available to user add them to the applicaiton (not vault)
	- Many vault can have manu case (same keys can be used across many vaults)
- Now with the above context review these screens in order: docs/ui-captures/sessions/2025-10-03_165132871/screenshots
	- You will notice that, now we have 4 screens: Vault, Manage Keys (earlier Setup), Encrypt, and Decrypt
		- Vault Screen: Vault is the basic container within this app and it's the starting point for a user journey, most of the time. A user can create many vaults, without attaching any keys (ofcourse they can't do anything with them without keys)
		- Manage Keys: Currently not very intutive. There is a vault-dropdown to select a vault. If there is only one vault, no confusion. 1 vault is seleected by default and user just create new keys and then go to encrypt/decrypt
			- But if user creates more vaults, its not intutive how to add 'existing set of keys' (inside the KeyMenuBar) to the new vault.
		- Encrypt: Look n feel are not good as it was taken from previous release and just adated a little to test fucntionally. The good thing is that in this screen, we don't need to change much in terms of the flow. User should be able to select any vault and click Encrypt. We are using 'multi receipient'  age encryption thoigh the backend inside src-tauri and it has been working fine. So, when user click Encrypt Now, we encrypt with all the keys displayed inside the KeyMenyBar (i.e. keys attached to a vault). While its not shown and couldnt be cpatured, there is a progress kind of page which comes after cliccking on 'Ecnrypt Now'. While there should be a message of successful encryption after the button click, in the current UI, it just displaus the page with 'Encrypt Npw' again. But it is functionall, age encrypted bundle gets generated and successfully stored o the machine.
		- Decrypt: Here it is very similar to previous screen. Only thing is once user select an encrypted vault (from previous step), user need to select one of the key to decrypt. Once they select, there is a page which shows, 'Decrypt Now' after click a temp progress page, and then final success message display.


Once you understand, let me know what you think about the current design. Then I will share my ideas of changing the UI look and feel. Be aware that backend code has already been implemented and we are following a well designed pattern UI -> Commands -> Manager -> Service which then collaborate with Domain/Infrastrcuture layers. So UI code can only consume the API exposed via Commands interface (all the api should be inside bindings.rs see @docs/common/api-command-registration.md). So, you do not make any changes to the backend and can not call anything directly from backend except going throihg the command layer. If you identify anything happening from the previous release (DDD implemented only last week), we need to make our code compliant as part of this UI resign effort and ensure we respect this pattern (UI -> Commands -> Manager -> Service -> Domain/Infrastrcuture). More likely all the apis needed by UI should already be available, but if it is not, you will let me know what is missing and needed for UI and i will review and approve either any change in the command interface existing api or add a new api.
