docs/architecture/cicd-modular-structure.md, before:

# CI/CD Modular Pipeline Architecture

## Overview

The release pipeline has been refactored from a monolithic 615-line workflow into a modular, maintainable architecture using composite actions.

## Structure

```
.github/
├── actions/                        # Reusable composite actions
│   ├── apple-certificates/         # Apple signing certificate management
│   ├── notarize-macos/            # macOS notarization process
│   ├── rename-artifacts/          # Artifact naming standardization
│   ├── create-checksums/          # SHA256 checksum generation
│   └── promote-release/           # Beta → Production promotion
├── workflows/
│   └── release.yml                # Main orchestrator (301 lines, down from 615)

scripts/
└── ci/
    └── generate-release-notes.sh  # Release notes generation
```

## Workflow Capabilities

### 1. Standard Release (Tag Push)
```bash
git tag v1.0.0
git push origin v1.0.0
```
- Builds for all platforms (macOS Intel/ARM, Windows, Linux x64/ARM64)
- Signs and notarizes macOS DMGs
- Creates draft release with all artifacts

### 2. Beta/Alpha Release
```bash
git tag v1.0.0-beta.1
git push origin v1.0.0-beta.1
```
- Same as standard release (all platforms)
- Tagged as pre-release

### 3. Test Builds (Selective Platforms)
The pipeline supports smart selective builds using tag naming conventions:

#### Minimal Test Build
```bash
git tag v1.0.0-test
git push origin v1.0.0-test
```
- Builds only Windows + Linux x64 (no macOS, no Linux ARM64)
- Avoids unnecessary macOS notarization cycles

#### Platform-Specific Test Builds
```bash
# Linux only (both x64 and ARM64)
git tag v1.0.0-test-linux
git push origin v1.0.0-test-linux

# macOS only (both Intel and ARM)
git tag v1.0.0-test-mac
git push origin v1.0.0-test-mac

# Windows only
git tag v1.0.0-test-win
git push origin v1.0.0-test-win

# Combinations
git tag v1.0.0-test-mac-linux    # macOS + Linux
git tag v1.0.0-test-win-linux    # Windows + Linux
```

### 4. Promotion (Beta → Production)
```bash
gh workflow run release.yml \
  -f promote_from=1.0.0-beta.1 \
  -f version=1.0.0
```
- Reuses beta artifacts
- No rebuild required
- Creates new production release

### 5. Manual Release with Selective Build
```bash
gh workflow run release.yml \
  -f version=1.0.0 \
  -f selective_build=true \
  -f build_macos_intel=false \
  -f build_macos_arm=false \
  -f build_linux=true \
  -f build_windows=true
```
- Manual control over which platforms to build
- Useful for testing specific platform changes

## Benefits

### Maintainability
- **Before**: 615 lines in single file
- **After**: 301 lines main + 6 focused actions (~50-100 lines each)
- **Result**: 50% reduction in main file complexity

### AI Agent Friendly
- Smaller files easier to edit
- Clear separation of concerns
- Isolated changes don't affect entire pipeline

### Reusability
- Composite actions can be used in other workflows
- Standardized patterns across CI/CD
- Easy to test individual components

### Flexibility
- Add new features as separate actions
- Modify specific functionality without touching core
- Support multiple release strategies

## Composite Actions

### apple-certificates
- **Purpose**: Manage Apple code signing
- **Operations**: setup, cleanup
- **Lines**: ~70

### notarize-macos
- **Purpose**: Apple notarization process
- **Operations**: submit, wait, staple, verify
- **Lines**: ~120

### rename-artifacts
- **Purpose**: Standardize artifact naming
- **Platforms**: macOS, Windows, Linux
- **Lines**: ~130

### create-checksums
- **Purpose**: Generate SHA256 checksums
- **Output**: checksums.txt
- **Lines**: ~30

### promote-release
- **Purpose**: Promote beta to production
- **Features**: Artifact reuse, version renaming
- **Lines**: ~140

## Release Artifacts

The pipeline generates the following artifacts for each platform:

### macOS (2 files)
- `barqly-vault-{version}-macos-x86_64.dmg` - Intel processors
- `barqly-vault-{version}-macos-arm64.dmg` - Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3)

### Windows (2 files)
- `barqly-vault-{version}-x64.msi` - MSI installer
- `barqly-vault-{version}-windows-x64.zip` - Standalone executable

### Linux x86_64 (4 files)
- `barqly-vault-{version}-1_amd64.deb` - Debian/Ubuntu package
- `barqly-vault-{version}-1.x86_64.rpm` - RedHat/Fedora package
- `barqly-vault-{version}-1_amd64.AppImage` - Universal Linux app
- `barqly-vault-{version}-x86_64.tar.gz` - Standalone binary

### Linux ARM64 (3 files)
- `barqly-vault-{version}-1_arm64.deb` - Debian/Ubuntu ARM package
- `barqly-vault-{version}-1.aarch64.rpm` - RedHat/Fedora ARM package
- `barqly-vault-{version}-aarch64.tar.gz` - Standalone ARM binary

### Additional Files
- `checksums.txt` - SHA256 checksums for all artifacts

**Note**: The `-1` in Linux package names is the release number, following standard Linux packaging conventions.

## Testing

### Test Standard Release
```bash
# Create test tag
git tag v0.7.0-test
git push origin v0.7.0-test

# Monitor in Actions tab
# Delete test release when done
gh release delete v0.7.0-test --yes
git push --delete origin v0.7.0-test
```

### Test Promotion
```bash
# Promote existing beta
gh workflow run release.yml \
  -f promote_from=0.6.3-alpha \
  -f version=0.7.0
```

## Migration from Old Pipeline

The refactored pipeline is backward compatible:
- Same triggers (tags, workflow_dispatch)
- Same artifact outputs
- Same release format
- Added promotion capability

## Future Enhancements

1. **Platform-specific workflows**: Further split by OS
2. **Parallel testing**: Add test job in parallel with build
3. **Automatic changelogs**: Generate from commit history
4. **Multi-arch Linux**: Add ARM64 builds
5. **Incremental releases**: Delta updates for faster downloads

Commit message:

refactor: simplify CI/CD to focus on 4 desktop platforms only
- Remove Linux ARM64 support (not needed for desktop encryption app)
- Simplify platform IDs (linux_x64 -> linux)
- Clean up cross-compilation code
- Update docs to reflect desktop-only focus
- Focus on macOS Intel/ARM, Windows x64, Linux x64

docs/architecture/cicd-modular-structure.md, after:

# CI/CD Modular Pipeline Architecture

## Overview

The release pipeline has been refactored from a monolithic 615-line workflow into a modular, maintainable architecture using composite actions.

## Structure

```
.github/
├── actions/                        # Reusable composite actions
│   ├── apple-certificates/         # Apple signing certificate management
│   ├── notarize-macos/            # macOS notarization process
│   ├── rename-artifacts/          # Artifact naming standardization
│   ├── create-checksums/          # SHA256 checksum generation
│   └── promote-release/           # Beta → Production promotion
├── workflows/
│   └── release.yml                # Main orchestrator (301 lines, down from 615)

scripts/
└── ci/
    └── generate-release-notes.sh  # Release notes generation
```

## Workflow Capabilities

### 1. Standard Release (Tag Push)
```bash
git tag v1.0.0
git push origin v1.0.0
```
- Builds for all platforms (macOS Intel/ARM, Windows, Linux x64/ARM64)
- Signs and notarizes macOS DMGs
- Creates draft release with all artifacts

### 2. Beta/Alpha Release
```bash
git tag v1.0.0-beta.1
git push origin v1.0.0-beta.1
```
- Same as standard release (all platforms)
- Tagged as pre-release

### 3. Test Builds (Selective Platforms)
The pipeline supports smart selective builds using tag naming conventions:

#### Minimal Test Build
```bash
git tag v1.0.0-test
git push origin v1.0.0-test
```
- Builds only Windows + Linux x64 (no macOS, no Linux ARM64)
- Avoids unnecessary macOS notarization cycles

#### Platform-Specific Test Builds
```bash
# Linux only (both x64 and ARM64)
git tag v1.0.0-test-linux
git push origin v1.0.0-test-linux

# macOS only (both Intel and ARM)
git tag v1.0.0-test-mac
git push origin v1.0.0-test-mac

# Windows only
git tag v1.0.0-test-win
git push origin v1.0.0-test-win

# Combinations
git tag v1.0.0-test-mac-linux    # macOS + Linux
git tag v1.0.0-test-win-linux    # Windows + Linux
```

### 4. Promotion (Beta → Production)
```bash
gh workflow run release.yml \
  -f promote_from=1.0.0-beta.1 \
  -f version=1.0.0
```
- Reuses beta artifacts
- No rebuild required
- Creates new production release

### 5. Manual Release with Selective Build
```bash
gh workflow run release.yml \
  -f version=1.0.0 \
  -f selective_build=true \
  -f build_macos_intel=false \
  -f build_macos_arm=false \
  -f build_linux=true \
  -f build_windows=true
```
- Manual control over which platforms to build
- Useful for testing specific platform changes

## Benefits

### Maintainability
- **Before**: 615 lines in single file
- **After**: 301 lines main + 6 focused actions (~50-100 lines each)
- **Result**: 50% reduction in main file complexity

### AI Agent Friendly
- Smaller files easier to edit
- Clear separation of concerns
- Isolated changes don't affect entire pipeline

### Reusability
- Composite actions can be used in other workflows
- Standardized patterns across CI/CD
- Easy to test individual components

### Flexibility
- Add new features as separate actions
- Modify specific functionality without touching core
- Support multiple release strategies

## Composite Actions

### apple-certificates
- **Purpose**: Manage Apple code signing
- **Operations**: setup, cleanup
- **Lines**: ~70

### notarize-macos
- **Purpose**: Apple notarization process
- **Operations**: submit, wait, staple, verify
- **Lines**: ~120

### rename-artifacts
- **Purpose**: Standardize artifact naming
- **Platforms**: macOS, Windows, Linux
- **Lines**: ~130

### create-checksums
- **Purpose**: Generate SHA256 checksums
- **Output**: checksums.txt
- **Lines**: ~30

### promote-release
- **Purpose**: Promote beta to production
- **Features**: Artifact reuse, version renaming
- **Lines**: ~140

## Release Artifacts

The pipeline generates the following artifacts for desktop platforms:

### macOS (2 files)
- `barqly-vault-{version}-macos-x86_64.dmg` - Intel processors
- `barqly-vault-{version}-macos-arm64.dmg` - Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3)

### Windows (2 files)
- `barqly-vault-{version}-x64.msi` - MSI installer
- `barqly-vault-{version}-windows-x64.zip` - Standalone executable

### Linux (4 files)
- `barqly-vault-{version}-1_amd64.deb` - Debian/Ubuntu package
- `barqly-vault-{version}-1.x86_64.rpm` - RedHat/Fedora package
- `barqly-vault-{version}-1_amd64.AppImage` - Universal Linux app
- `barqly-vault-{version}-x86_64.tar.gz` - Standalone binary

### Additional Files
- `checksums.txt` - SHA256 checksums for all artifacts

**Note**: The `-1` in Linux package names is the release number, following standard Linux packaging conventions.

## Testing

### Test Standard Release
```bash
# Create test tag
git tag v0.7.0-test
git push origin v0.7.0-test

# Monitor in Actions tab
# Delete test release when done
gh release delete v0.7.0-test --yes
git push --delete origin v0.7.0-test
```

### Test Promotion
```bash
# Promote existing beta
gh workflow run release.yml \
  -f promote_from=0.6.3-alpha \
  -f version=0.7.0
```

## Migration from Old Pipeline

The refactored pipeline is backward compatible:
- Same triggers (tags, workflow_dispatch)
- Same artifact outputs
- Same release format
- Added promotion capability


## Future Enhancements

1. **Platform-specific workflows**: Further split by OS
2. **Parallel testing**: Add test job in parallel with build
3. **Automatic changelogs**: Generate from commit history
4. **Incremental releases**: Delta updates for faster downloads
5. **Auto-update mechanism**: In-app update notifications
